---
title: Simulation
showPath: true
underDocsPath: true
showBackToTop: true
---

# Simulation
{:#intro .no_toc}

This document outlines the inner-workings of the simulation
that is used to select the source/post pairs that each participant
is shown, and that decides the changes to the credibility and
followers of participants as they play through a study.



## Table of Contents
{:#toc .no_toc}
* toc
{:toc}



## 1. Simulation Phases
A simulation is performed for each participant that loads the
study, to determine what they are shown during the study.
These simulations are performed in three phases.

#### Phase 1: Sampling of Initial Conditions
{:#intro-initial-conditions .no_toc}
The initial follower number and credibility of each source
is sampled from the default skew-normal distributions
specified in the configuration spreadsheet. These values
are sampled independently for each participant that
loads the study.

#### Phase 2: Simulation of the Source/Post Pairs to Display
{:#intro-simulation .no_toc}
All the source/post pairs that will be shown to each participant
is pre-generated by running a simulation. This simulation is run
for every participant that loads the study, before they start
the study. Therefore, _the interactions of participants with
posts have no impact on the source/post pairs that they will
be shown_.

#### Phase 3: Participant's Followers & Credibility Changes During Gameplay
{:#intro-gameplay .no_toc}
The participant's followers and credibility
are updated as they react to posts. The changes to their
followers and credibility is dependent upon the reactions
they choose, and may be configured for each post.


## 2. Changes to Source's Credibility and Followers
{:#source-stats-change}

Throughout the game, the credibility and followers of the
sources of posts will change. The change to the credibility
and followers of the sources is the same change that is
applied to participants after they **share** a post. If share
reactions are disabled, then the credibility and
followers of sources will not change. The changes to source's
followers and credibility is applied _before_ the source/post
pair is shown to the participant. This is done to increase
immersion by showing that the credibility and followers of
the sources also change. However, it also means that if one
source is selected to show many true or many false posts,
their credibility may rise to 100 or fall to zero over the
course of a game.



## 3. Source/Post Pair Selection
{:#source-post-selection}

The source/post pair selection dictates what posts participants
will be shown, when, and from which source. All the source/post
pairs are pre-generated when a participant starts the study. The
participant's interactions with the posts have no impact on the
sources and posts that will be shown to them.

There are four source/post selection methods that can be used
for your studies. The simulation of each source/post selection
method is detailed in the sections below. For all the methods
other than **Pre-Defined**, the sources will be chosen before
the posts. This is described in the
[Source Selection section](#source-selection).

The game can be configured such that some sources can be
associated with many posts, however each post will only ever
be shown once to a participant.

### 3.1. Source Selection
{:#source-selection}

The source to be shown is always chosen first for all
source/post selection methods other than **Pre-Defined**.
Sources are chosen randomly, and their choice is weighted
by their maximum number of posts. Therefore, if a source
has a maximum of 10 posts, it will be 10x as likely to be
chosen as a source that has a maximum of 1 post. Sources
that have an unlimited number of posts will be weighted with
the mean max-post number of all sources that have a maximum.
Once the maximum number of posts has been reached for a given
source, it will not be chosen again.

### 3.2. Selection Method 1: Overall-Ratio
{:#selection-method-overall-ratio}

When using the **Overall-Ratio** source/post selection method,
posts will be chosen to target an overall percentage of true
and false posts to be shown to the user. For example,
if you use an overall true-post percentage of 60%, then the
simulation will have a 60% chance of selecting a true post,
and a 40% chance of selecting a false post. This is achieved by
probabilistically selecting whether to show a true or a false
post before the post itself is selected. If it is chosen
that a true post should be displayed, it will then select
a true post randomly from the pool of all true posts that
have not yet been shown. Similarly, if it is chosen that
a false post should be displayed, it will select a false
post randomly from the pool of all false posts that
have not yet been shown.

However, if there are no remaining true posts, or no remaining
false posts, then the selection method will have to choose
from whatever posts are remaining. For example, if your study
has a length of 10 and includes 20 false posts but only
5 true posts, it is not possible that the game could ever
show more than 50% true posts to the participant. After
it has shown 5 true posts to the participant, it will only
be able to show false posts from then on.

Also note that due to the probabilistic sampling, it is
possible that the actual ratio of true and false posts
deviates from the target ratio, especially with small studies
(e.g., with only 10 posts shown, even with a 60%:40%
true:false ratio, one could easily end up with only 3 true posts
and 7 false posts, by chance).

### 3.3. Selection Method 2: Source-Ratios
{:#selection-method-source-ratios}

When using the **Source-Ratios** source/post selection method,
each source must be given their own true-post percentage. The
post selection then acts in the exact same way as when using
the **Overall-Ratio** selection method, except that the true-post
percentage is source-specific.

### 3.4. Selection Method 3: Credibility
{:#selection-method-credibility}

When using the **Credibility** source/post selection method,
the true-post percentage to use for selecting posts is
determined by a configurable linear relationship from
the credibility of each source. Once the true-post percentage
is calculated from the credibility of the source, it is then
used in the same way as the **Overall-Ratio** selection method
to choose the posts.

Care must be taken when using the credibility source/post
selection method, as a source's credibility can increase to 100
or decrease to 0 over the course of a game if a source is
used to show many true or false posts. This may be accelerated
under **Credibility** selection due to a feedback cycle where
a high credibility causes a source to show more true posts,
which increases credibility. Adjusting the relationship
between credibility and true-post percentage to be flatter can
help alleviate this issue. Additionally, if many sources are
used, then this will probably not cause an issue.

### 3.5. Selection Method 4: Pre-Defined
{:#selection-method-predefined}

The **Pre-Defined** source/post selection method allows
specification of an exact set of source/post pairs to
be shown to participants. Every participant is always
shown the exact same set of source/post pairs that is
pre-defined in the configuration spreadsheet. The order
of the source/post pairs may also be randomised for
each participant if enabled in the study configuration.
