# Study Configuration

This document outlines how to configure your own studies
to run using The Misinformation Game. It also outlines
in detail the inner-workings of the simulation.

# Creating your own studies
To be completed.

# Simulation
This section outlines the inner-workings of the simulation
that participants interact with. The simulation for each
participant is performed in three parts:

1) The initial followers and credibility of each source is
   sampled from the default normal distributions specified
   in the configuration spreadsheet.
2) All the source/post pairs that will be shown to participants
   is pre-generated by running a simulation. Therefore, the
   interactions of participants with posts has no impact on
   the source/post pairs that they will be shown.
3) The participant's followers and credibility are updated as
   they react to posts. The changes to their followers and
   credibility is dependent upon the reaction they chose,
   and may be configured for each post.

## 📊 Source's Credibility and Followers Change
Throughout the game, the credibility and followers of the
sources will change. The change to the credibility and
followers of the source's is the same change that is
applied to participants after they share a post. This
change is applied after the source/post pair is shown to
the participant. This is done to increase immersion by
showing that the credibility and followers of the sources
also changes. However, it also means that if one source
is selected to show many true or many false posts, their
credibility may rise to 100 or fall to zero.

## 🧮 Source/Post Pair Selection
The source/post pair selection dictates what posts participants
will be shown, and when. It also decides the source that will be
shown as having shared the post. All the source/post pairs
are pre-generated when a participant starts the study. The
interactions of the participant with posts has no impact on the
sources and posts that will be shown to them next.

Sources can be selected for many posts, however each post will
only ever be shown once to a participant.

### Source Selection
The source to be shown is always chosen first for all
source/post selection methods other than **Pre-Defined**.
Sources are chosen randomly, and their choice is weighted
by their maximum number of posts. Therefore, if a source
has a maximum of 10 posts, it will be 10x as likely to be
chosen as a source that has a maximum of 1 post. Sources
that have no maximum number of posts will be weighted with
the mean max posts of all sources with a maximum. Once a
source has been shown with its maximum number of posts,
it cannot be chosen again.


### 1. Overall-Ratio
When using the **Overall-Ratio** source/post selection method,
the posts will be chosen to target an overall percentage of
true and false posts to be shown to the user. For example,
if you use an overall true-post percentage of 60%, then it
will attempt to sample 60% true posts, and 40% false posts.
This is achieved by randomly selecting whether to show a true
or a false post based upon the true post percentage. Therefore,
it is technically possible that a participant is shown many
false posts even if the true post percentage is high due to
random chance.

However, if there are no remaining true posts, or no remaining
false posts, then the selection method will have to choose
from whatever posts are remaining. Therefore, if your study
has a length of 10 and includes 20 false posts but only
5 true posts, it is not possible that the game could ever
show more than 50% true posts to the participant. Every time
it has shown 5 true posts to the participant, it will only
be able to show false posts from then on.

### 2. Source-Ratios
When using the **Source-Ratios** source/post selection method,
each source must be given their own true post percentage. The
post selection then acts in the exact same way as when using
the **Overall-Ratio** selection method, except that the true
post percentage is source-specific.

### 3. Credibility
When using the **Credibility** source/post selection method,
the true post percentage to use for selecting posts is
determined from a configurable linear relationship from
the credibility of the source. Once the true post percentage
is calculated from the credibility of the source, it is then
used in the same way as the **Overall-Ratio** selection method
to choose the post.

Care must be taken when using the credibility source/post
selection method, as if a source is used to show many true
posts, their credibility may decrease to 0 or increase to 100
over the course of a game. This may be accelerated when using
the **Credibility** selection method, as it causes a feedback
cycle where a high credibility causes them to show more true
posts, which gives sources a higher credibility. Adjusting
your relationship between credibility and true post percentage
to be more flat can help to alleviate this issue.

### 4. Pre-Defined
The **Pre-Defined** source/post selection method allows
specification of an exact order of sources and posts to
be shown to participants. Every participant is always
shown the exact same set of source/post pairs that is
pre-defined in the configuration spreadsheet.
